For my final project, my idea was to build a type of reception kind of work. Imagine the person using my spreadsheet as a receptionist registering up to 10 guests at a time. The receptionist collects the answers for a couple of questions, and based on that the spreadsheet does calculations, and many other functions. The receptionist has limited options for a couple of questions and for other question warnings or notes on how to input the data (multiple data validation). The emails are linked to the email account. The data is formatted automatically for date and time, and both the tabs of the spreadsheet have a header with the name of the tab, and a footer with the page number and “FinalProject” written. The “Time and Date to take tour” must be greater than the move-in date, and the “How long do you wish to spend in the tour” needs to be between 30 and 90 minutes. The cell “B11” has its name defined as “Current_Time_and_Date” and it is linked to the green cell in the next tab. On the “Specific Info” tab is where most of the calculations and functions are being used. First, I calculate the age of each guest based on the current time and date (“now” function), and their date and time of birth rounded to the nearest tenth. Then, I check to see if they are over 18 years old. Then, I calculate how many days are left for their birthday. After, I calculate their move-out date based on the move-in date and the number of days they want to stay. Then, each guest is assigned a username and password. The username is the concatenation of the first initial of the last name in upper-case, followed by their name in lower case, followed by their zip code. The password is the concatenation of their id number, plus the last 3 digits of their zip code, followed by their last name in lower-case. This hotel also offers a tour, which the guests pick the date and time to do it, and how long they want to do the tour based on minutes. So, based on that, I pulled the start time and calculated the end time with the time function. Then, to make it easier for the receptionist, I implemented a vlookup function to retrieve information from the guest number to see if they are smokers or not, and to see what the purpose of their trip is, so they can prepare in advance. Afterwards, I calculated the average age, the median of the age, the average age for guests over 18 years old, the average age for guests over 23 that have less than 100 days left for their birthday, the oldest guest, the youngest guest, the number of smokers, the sum of the age of the guest over 18, the largest number of days left for the birthday, and the second smallest number of days left for the birthday. Also, I used the rank function to rank the oldest guest to the youngest guest. Finally, I used a hlookup function to retrieve from a list containing the name of the guests their last name, their gender, and their id number. I also edited both tabs to fit in one page, and the width to be one page. Then, I set the print area to be limited to the data boundaries of the data. Autosave is set to take place every minute. Furthermore, the “Specific Info” tab is all password protected, with the exception of cell “B16”, and cell “B25”. The password is “123456” for the “Specific Info” tab. And the “Basic Info” tab is all protected as well, with the exception of parts where an input is needed (blue part). The password for the “Basic Info” tab is “654321”.
